1.	Change the password to a password you would like to use for the remainder of the semester.
Command : passwd


2.	Display the date
Command : date

3.	Count the number of lines in the /etc/passwd file
Command : wc -l etc/passwd

4.	Find out who else is on the system
 
Command : who

 
5.	Direct the output of the man pages for the date command to a file name mydate
Command : man date > mydate.txt


6.	Create a subdirectory ‘mydir’
Command : mkdir mydir


7.	Move the file mydate into new subdirectory
Command : mv mydate.txt mydir


8.	Go to mydir and copy the file mydate to a new file called outdate
Command : cp mydate outdate


9.	List the contents of the mydir
Command : ls
 
 


10.	Do a long listing on the file ourdate and note the permissions.
Command :ls -l outdate


11.	Display the name of the current directory starting from root directory
Command : pwd


12.	Move the files in the directory mydir into the home directory
Command : mv mydir/* .

13.	Display the first 5 lines of mydate
Command : head -5 mydate


14.	Display the last 8 lines of the mydate
Command : head -8 mydate

 
15.	Remove the directory mydir
Command : rmdir mydir


16.	Redirect the out of the long listing of files to a file named list
Command : ls -l > list.txt


17.	Select any 5 capitals of states in India and enter them in file named capitals1. Choose more capitals and enter them in a file named capitals2. Choose 5 more capitals and enter them in a file named capitals3. Concatenate all three files into file named capitals.
Command : cat > capitals1
cat > capitals2 cat > capitals3
cat capitals1 capitals2 capitals3 > capitals



18.	Concatenate file capitals2 at the end of the file capitals.
Command : cat capitals2 >> capitals

 
19.	Give read and write permission to all users for the capitals file.
Command : chmod 666 capitals


20.	Give read permission to the owner of the file for capitals file.
Command : chmod 466 capitals


21.	Create alias to concatenate the 3 files and redirect them to capitals and run it again.
Command : alias concat=‘cat capitals1 capitals2 capitals3 > capitals’



22.	Find out the number of times ‘the’ appears in the mydate file.
Command : grep -c “the” mydate


23.	Find out the line numbers on which the string ‘date’ appears in the file mydate.
Command : grep -n “date” mydate

 
24.	Print all lines of mydate except those which have ‘i’ in them.
Command : grep -v “i” mydate.txt

25.	
List the words of 4 letters from the mydate Command : egrep -w “.{4}” mydate


26.	List 5 states in the northeast India in file my states. List their corresponding capitals in mycapitals file. Use paste command to combine the files.
Command : cat > mystates
cat > mycapitals
paste mystates my capitals
=

27.	Use the cut command to print 1 and 3 column of the /etc/passwd file.
Command : cut -f1,3 /etc/passwd


28.	Count the number of people logged in on system and trap them in file using tee command
Command : who | tee users
 
 


29.	Convert the contents of mystates into uppercase
Command : tr ‘[a-z]’ ‘[A-Z]’ < mystates


30.	Create any two files and display the common values in them
Command : comm capitals1 capitals

